Though, what is AWS Lambda
and why is it helpful for us?
So let's take an example.
We are going to start with the Amazon EC2.
And Amazon EC2, as we know, there are virtual servers
in the cloud, and we have to provision them,
so we are limited by the amount of memory
and CPU we're going to provision.
They have to be continuously running.
I mean, we can optimize them by starting them
and stopping them efficiently,
but otherwise, they run continuously
regardless of if something's happening or not
on your instance.
And if you wanna scale, you can use Auto Scaling groups,
but that means that you need to do something
to automatically add and remove servers.
Now, this is one way of doing things
and it has worked great, but then there is AWS Lambda.
So with Lambda, these are visual functions,
no servers to manage.
So that means that we just provision the code
and the functions run.
It is limited by time.
So we're talking about short executions of up to 15 minutes,
which is, in my opinion, not that short.
And then finally, they run on demand.
So that means that when you don't use Lambda,
your Lambda function is not running
and you only are going to be billed when your function
is running and it'll run on demand when it gets invoked,
which is a huge shift from Amazon EC2.
Finally, the scaling is automated.
If you need more Lambda functions occurrences
and the concurrency,
then automatically, AWS will provision
for you more Lambda functions.
Magical.
We'll see this in the hands-on.
So benefits of Lambda, I'm sure you see many.
First of all, the pricing is super easy.
You're going to pay for the number
of requests Lambda receives, so the number of invocations,
and your compute time.
So how long Lambda was running for.
There is a very generous free tier on Lambda,
which is 1 million Lambda requests
and 400,000 gigabyte seconds of compute time.
It is also integrated with so many AWS services
as we'll see.
We can use a lot of different programming languages
on Lambda, so we're quite free.
And there is very easy monitoring integrations
through CloudWatch.
Finally, if you wanted to provision more resources
per function, you can provision up to 10 gigabytes
of RAM per function, which is a lot.
And by the way, you need to know this.
If you increase the RAM of your function,
then it will also improve the quality
and performance of your CPU and network.
So AWS Lambda can run many languages such as node.js
for JavaScript, Python, Java, C#, so either .NET Core
or PowerShell, Ruby, and it supports many other languages
through something called the custom runtime API,
for example.
It supports the Rust or the Golang languages through that.
You also have the option to use containers on Lambda.
So this is a container image
and you must implement what's called the Lambda Runtime API.
Now, that maybe too advanced from an exam perspective,
but what don't we should remember
is that there is a service named ECS or Fargate.
And so to run container images, especially Docker images,
it is always going to be preferred from an exam perspective
to run them on ECS or Fargate versus Lambda,
even though Lambda supports running some level
of customized Docker images.
So you don't need to remember all the languages,
of course, from Lambda, but just remember
that it has some level of support.
The most important ones is going to be, for sure, node.js
and Python.
Now, I said that Lambda was integrated
with so many services, so I'll give you a few
and some idea of how they're integrated.
And in this course, we will see some of these integrations.
So API Gateway is to create a REST API
and they will invoke our Lambda functions.
Kinesis will be using Lambda
to do some data transformations on the fly.
DynamoDB will be used to create some triggers.
So whenever something happens in our database,
a Lambda function will be triggered.
Amazon is free.
We've seen it already.
Lambda function would be triggered anytime,
for example, a file is created in S3.
CloudFront, this will be Lambda at edge,
and I have a lecture dedicated to this in this section.
CloudWatch Events or EventBridge.
This is whenever things happen in our infrastructure on AWS
and we want to be able to react to things.
For example, say, we have a code pipeline state changes
and we want to do some automations based on it,
we can use a Lambda function.
CloudWatch Logs to stream these logs wherever you want.
SNS to react to notifications in your SNS topics.
SQS to process messages from your SQS queues.
And finally, Cognito to react to whenever, for example,
a user logs in to your database.
So these are just the main ones.
There are tons of Lambda integrations.
And so I wanna show you a very good example here,
which is a serverless thumbnail creation.
So let's say we have an S3 bucket
and we want to create thumbnails on the flight.
So there will be an event, which is that the new image
will be uploaded in Amazon S3.
This will trigger through an S3 event notification,
a Lambda function.
In that Lambda function,
we'll have code to generate a thumbnail.
That thumbnail may be pushed
and uploaded into another S3 Bucket or the same S3 Bucket,
which will be a smaller version of that image.
And also, our Lambda function may want to insert some data
into DynamoDB around some metadata for the image.
For example, the image name, size, creation date,
et cetera, et cetera.
And so thanks to Lambda, we've automated
and had a reactive architecture to the event of new app,
new images being created in S3.
Another example that's extremely popular
is a serverless CRON job.
So CRON is a way on your EC2 instances, for example,
to generate jobs every five minutes
or every Monday at 10:00 AM, et cetera, et cetera.
But you need to run CRON on a virtual server,
so an EC2 instance and so on.
And so while your instance is not running,
or at least your CRON's are not doing anything,
then your instance time is wasted.
And so as such, you can create a CloudWatch Event rule
or an EventBridge rule
that will be triggered every one hour.
And every one hour, it will be integrated
with a Lambda function that will perform your task.
So this is a way to create a serverless CRON
because in this example, CloudWatch Events is serverless
and Lambda functions are serverless too.
Now, let's take an example at the Lambda pricing.
So you can find all the information on this website
in case the information here is outdated,
but it will give you an example of how that works.
So you pay per calls, the first 1 million requests are free,
and then you're going to pay 20 cents
per extra 1 million requests.
So that makes a very, very cheap request.
Then you're going to pay per duration in increments
of one millisecond.
So you get the first 400,000 gigabytes seconds
of compute time per month for free.
And then what that means, this gigabyte seconds
is that it means you get 400,000 seconds of execution
if the function has one gigabyte of RAM.
That means you get eight times as more seconds
if the function has eight times as less RAM,
so 128 megabytes of RAM.
And after that, you're going to pay $1
for 600,000 gigabyte seconds.
So to be honest, you can make the math.
It's usually very, very cheap to run your code on Lambda.
So it's a very popular option to create your applications.
So that's it.
Now, let's go into the hands-on
to get a feeling of how Lambda works.